# Summary

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

In order to enable Sparkify to parse and analyze their data in a distributed manner, a Spark ETL Pipeline was created, which reads the data stored inside S3.

# How to run the ETL pipeline

To start the ETL pipeline run the following command below:

To populate tables via ETL:
```bash
python etl.py
```

# Files

* **[etl.py](etl.py)**: Python script to extract the information needed from Song and Log data hosted at AWS S3 and importing them to the local directory.


# Database schema and ETL pipeline.

A Relational Database Schema was created in order to enable Sparkify to analyze their data, which can be filled with an ETL pipeline.

The STAR scheme enables the company to view the user behaviour over several dimensions.
The fact table is built to store all user song activities that contain the category "NextSong". Using this table, the company can analyze the dimensions users, songs, artists and time.

* **Fact Table**: songplays
* **Dimension Tables**: users, songs, artists and time.

# Dataset

The data is queried from AWS S3:

* **Song data**: ```s3://udacity-dend/song_data```
* **Log data**: ```s3://udacity-dend/log_data```

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](http://millionsongdataset.com/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.